Imported and adapted foods[edit]

Japan has incorporated imported food from across the world (mostly from Asia, Europe and to a lesser extent the Americas), and have historically adapted many to make them their own.

Foods imported from Portugal in the 16th century[edit]
Kasutera — sponge cake, originating in Nagasaki.
Konpeitō — star shaped sugar candy, the name comes from the Portuguese word confeito (comfit).
Pan — bread, introduced by Portugal. (bread is pão in Portuguese.) Japanese bread crumbs, panko, have been popularized by cooking shows.
Tempura — so thoroughly adopted that its foreign roots are unknown to most people, including many Japanese. As such, it is considered washoku (和食, native food).
Yōshoku[edit]

Yōshoku (洋食) is a style of Western-influenced food.

Breaded seafood or vegetables (furai [ja], フライ, derived from "fry"), and breaded meat (katsuretsu, カツレツ, derived from "cutlet" and often contracted to katsu), are usually served with shredded cabbage and/or lettuce, Japanese Worcestershire or tonkatsu sauce and lemon. Tempura, a related dish, has been heavily modified since its introduction to Japan by use of batter and dashi-flavored dip, and is usually considered to be washoku.
Korokke for sale at a Mitsukoshi food hall in Tokyo, Japan
See also: List of Japanese dishes § Deep-fried dishes (agemono, 揚げ物)
Kaki furai [ja] (カキフライ, 牡蠣フライ) - breaded oyster
Ebi furai (エビフライ, 海老フライ) - breaded shrimp
Korokke ("croquette" コロッケ) - breaded mashed potato and minced meat patties. When white sauce is added, it is called cream korokke. Other ingredients such as crab meat, shrimp, or mushrooms are also used instead of minced meat which are called kani-, ebi-, or kinoko-cream korokke, respectively.
Tonkatsu, Menchi katsu, chicken katsu, beef katsu, kujira katsu - breaded and deep-fried pork, minced meat patties, chicken, beef, and whale, respectively.
Japanese curry - rice - imported in the 19th century by way of the United Kingdom and adapted by Japanese Navy chefs. One of the most popular food items in Japan today.[citation needed] Eaten with a spoon. Curry is often eaten with pickled vegetables called fukujinzuke or rakkyo
Curry Pan - deep fried bread with Japanese curry sauce inside. The pirozhki of Russia was remodeled, and Curry bread was made.
Curry udon [ja] - is a hot noodle dish where the soup is made of Japanese curry and dashi. May also include meat or vegetables.
Hayashi rice
Hayashi rice (ハヤシライス) - beef and onions stewed in a red-wine sauce and served on rice
Nikujaga - soy sauce-flavored meat and potato stew that has been made in Japan to the extent that it is now considered washoku, but again originates from 19th century Japanese Navy chefs adapting beef stews of the Royal Navy.
Omu raisu - ketchup-flavored rice wrapped in omelet.

Other items were popularized after the war:

Hamburg steak - a ground beef patty, usually mixed with breadcrumbs and fried chopped onions, served with a side of white rice and vegetables. Often accompanied with demiglace sauce. Popular post-war food item served at homes. Sometimes eaten with a fork.
Fake food of naporitan in display window of a restaurant in Japan
Tarako spaghetti [ja] (たらこスパゲッティ)
Mentaiko spaghetti (明太子スパゲッティ)
Spaghetti - Japanese versions include:
with tomato ketchup, wieners, sliced onion and green pepper (called "naporitan" or "napolitan")
with mentaiko sauce topped with nori seaweed (tarako spaghetti [ja], たらこスパゲッティ) (mentaiko spaghetti, 明太子スパゲッティ)
with Japanese curry
Pizza - The popular American pizza companies Domino's, Pizza Hut and Shakey's all operate in Japan, but Japanese brands such as Aoki's and Pizza-La are higher-grossing and famous for catering to Japanese taste. Many pizza chains offer seasonal toppings. Japanese versions include:
with corn
with shrimp, squid, or other seafood
with mayonnaise, white sauce or Pesto basil sauce
with potato or eggplant
with Galbi beef or teriyaki chicken
with hard-boiled eggs
with macaroni, wieners or other prepared foods
Other homegrown cuisine of foreign origin[edit]
Japanese American cuisine
Burgers have various variations in Japan. Domestic chains like MOS Burger and Freshness Burger catering to Japanese tastes with seasonal specials like Teriyaki Burgers and the kinpira rice burger
Korean cuisine
Kimchi from Korea is often served with Japanese Chinese cuisine, though the local variant may use thinner cabbage.
Japanese Chinese cuisine
Ramen and related dishes such as champon and yaki soba
Mābō dōfu tends to be thinner than Chinese mapo doufu.
Japanese-only "Chinese dishes" like ebi chili (shrimp in a tangy and slightly spicy sauce)
Nikuman, anman, butaman and the obscure negi-man are all varieties of mantou with fillings.
Gyoza[1] are a very popular dish in Japan. Gyoza are the Japanese take on the Chinese dumplings with rich garlic flavor. Most often, they are seen in the crispy pan-fried form (potstickers), but they can be served boiled or even deep fried, as well.
Japanese English cuisine
Purin is a version of caramel custard.
Adaptations[edit]
California roll - invented in Canada,[2] then first introduced in California.
Spam musubi - a snack from Hawaii resembling onigiri, made with Spam
^ "Gyoza (Japanese dumplings)". BBC. Retrieved 14 October 2013.
^ McInerney, Jay (June 10, 2007). "Raw". The New York Times. Retrieved 14 October 2013.